# Docker for Developers - Part: 6 Docker Volume
Docker volumes are a powerful feature that allows you to persist data generated by and used by Docker containers. Volumes are stored outside of the container's filesystem, which means that they can be shared between containers and remain intact even if the container is removed.

## Types of Docker Volumes

1. **Named Volumes**: These are volumes that you create and manage using Docker commands. They are stored in a specific location on the host machine and can be shared between multiple containers.
2. **Anonymous Volumes**: These are volumes that are created automatically when you run a container without specifying a volume. They are not named and are typically used for temporary data storage.
3. **Host Volumes**: These are volumes that map a directory on the host machine to a directory in the container. This allows you to share files between the host and the container, and is useful for development and testing purposes.
## Managing Docker Volumes
You can manage Docker volumes using the Docker CLI. Here are some common commands:
-  **create**   Create a volume 
-  **inspect**  Display detailed information on one or more volumes
-  **ls**  List volumes
-  **prune**  Remove all unused volumes
-  **rm**  Remove one or more volumes

## Volume Mounting
You can mount a volume to a container using the `-v` or `--mount` flag when running a container. Here are some examples:

### Using the `-v` flag
```bash
docker run -itd --name my_container -v my_volume:/data my_image
```
### Using the `--mount` flag
```bash
docker run -itd --name my_container --mount source=my_volume,target=/data my_image
```
### Using Host Volumes
```bash
docker run -it -v C:/Users/ACER/Downloads:/home/ubuntu/folder ubuntu
```
In this example, we are mapping the `C:/Users/ACER/Downloads` directory on the host machine to the `/home/ubuntu/folder` directory in the container. This allows you to access files from the host machine within the container.
